## Responsive Design with Tailwind

In plain CSS, responsive design can be a complicated tangle of CSS classes and `@media` tags. Tailwind provides prefixes that can be applied to any Tailwind utility to control the set of screen sizes.

---

### Tailwind Screen Widths and Breakpoints

In CSS, various properties may be applied conditionally based on the width of the screen. These conditions are managed with the `@media` tag. The specific screen widths at which the design changes are often called **breakpoints**. In Tailwind, you can put a prefix on any Tailwind utility to specify the **minimum screen width** where that utility should be applied.

Tailwind defines five screen widths by default:

- **Small (`sm:`)**—640 pixels and up  
- **Medium (`md:`)**—768 pixels and up  
- **Large (`lg:`)**—1024 pixels and up  
- **Extra large (`xl:`)**—1280 pixels and up  
- **Extra extra large (`2xl:`)**—1536 pixels and up

The idea is that you’ll define your design for **mobile devices first**, and then use the prefixes to adjust the design for larger screens.

---

### Hide Based on Size

One way to make your application fit on a smaller screen is by **hiding parts of the user interface** on the smaller screen. In this case, because the smallest screen behavior is hidden, the unprefixed property is `.hidden`. At larger sizes, you might want the item to display, so you add in `.lg:block` (or whatever breakpoint you want to start seeing the item at), winding up with `class="hidden lg:block"`.

It’s quite common to have an element for a **hamburger menu** replace a navigation bar on small screens, but then disappear on a device that’s large enough to show all the navigation. In that case, the small-size behavior is to display, which is the default, and you add the hiding behavior as a breakpoint, like `class="lg:hidden"`.

---

Another step for responsive designs is to use **fewer Grid Columns on small devices** and **flex on larger devices**.
